#summary Update the app to x64

== Articles ==

https://developer.apple.com/library/IOs/documentation/General/Conceptual/CocoaTouch64BitGuide/ConvertingYourAppto64-Bit/ConvertingYourAppto64-Bit.html

== NSInteger and NSUInteger ==

http://stackoverflow.com/questions/4445173/when-to-use-nsinteger-vs-int

||
OS X is "LP64". This means that:

int is always 32-bits.

long long is always 64-bits.

NSInteger and long are always pointer-sized. That means they're 32-bits on 32-bit systems, and 64 bits on 64-bit systems.

The reason NSInteger exists is because many legacy APIs incorrectly used int instead of long to hold pointer-sized variables, which meant that the APIs had to change from int to long in their 64-bit versions. In other words, an API would have different function signatures depending on whether you're compiling for 32-bit or 64-bit architectures.  NSInteger intends to mask this problem with these legacy APIs.

In your new code, use int if you need a 32-bit variable, long long if you need a 64-bit integer, and long or NSInteger if you need a pointer-sized variable.
||

== String formatting ==

https://developer.apple.com/library/ios/documentation/Cocoa/Conceptual/Strings/Articles/formatSpecifiers.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40004265-SW5

== FLOAT/DOUBLE vs CGFLOAT ==

EXAMPLE: FLOAT/DOUBLE vs CGFLOAT

As an example we take the UITableView delegate method tableView:heightForRowAtIndexPath:.

In a 32-bit only application it will work fine if it is written like this:

-(float)tableView:(UITableView *)tableView heightForRowAtIndexPath:(NSIndexPath *)indexPath
{
    return 44;
}
float is a 32-bit value and the 44 you are returning is a 32-bit value. However, if we compile/run this same piece of code in a 64-bit arm64 architecture the 44 will be a 64-bit value. Returning a 64-bit value when a 32-bit value is expected will give an unexpected row height.

You can solve this issue by using the CGFloat type

-(CGFloat)tableView:(UITableView *)tableView heightForRowAtIndexPath:(NSIndexPath *)indexPath
{
    return 44;
}
This type represents a 32-bit float in a 32-bit environment and a 64-bit double in a 64-bit environment. Therefore when using this type the method will always receive the expected type regardless of compile/runtime environment.