== How to register vs 2008/9 environment variables ==
So you can execute then gacutil, ildasm whatever without providing a path. I guess this is just what VS Command Line does, but never had a time to look. Sample from the Tess's blog:
-----
CALL "%VS90COMNTOOLS%\vsvars32.bat" > NULL 
gacutil.exe /if "$(TargetPath)"

 
this will add the assembly to the GAC when you build.  Note that on 2005 you would have to change the path to be %VS80COMNTOOLS% rather than %VS90COMNTOOLS%
-----
== Using forfiles ==
Don't look for it on you XP machine. By default is present though on server systems.

forfiles /p [Path] /s /m *.* /d -3 /c "cmd /c del @file : date >= 3 days"

official help:
-----
FORFILES [/P pathname] [/M searchmask] [/S]
         [/C command] [/D [+ | -] {MM/dd/yyyy | dd}]

Description:
    Selects a file (or set of files) and executes a
    command on that file. This is helpful for batch jobs.

Parameter List:
    /P    pathname      Indicates the path to start searching.
                        The default folder is the current working directory (.).

    /M    searchmask    Searches files according to a searchmask. The default searchmask is '**'.

    /S                  Instructs forfiles to recurse into subdirectories. Like "DIR /S".

    /C    command       Indicates the command to execute for each file.
                        Command strings should be wrapped in double
                        quotes.

                        The default command is "cmd /c echo @file".

                        The following variables can be used in the command string:
                        @file    - returns the name of the file.
                        @fname   - returns the file name without extension.
                        @ext     - returns only the extension of the file.
                        @path    - returns the full path of the file.
                        @relpath - returns the relative path of the file.
                        @isdir   - returns "TRUE" if a file type is
                                   a directory, and "FALSE" for files.
                        @fsize   - returns the size of the file in bytes.
                        @fdate   - returns the last modified date of the file.
                        @ftime   - returns the last modified time of the file.

                        To include special characters in the command
                        line, use the hexadecimal code for the character
                        in 0xHH format (ex. 0x09 for tab). Internal
                        CMD.exe commands should be preceded with
                        "cmd /c".

    /D    date          Selects files with a last modified date greater
                        than or equal to (+), or less than or equal to
                        (-), the specified date using the
                        "MM/dd/yyyy" format; or selects files with a
                        last modified date greater than or equal to (+)
                        the current date plus "dd" days, or less than or
                        equal to (-) the current date minus "dd" days. A
                        valid "dd" number of days can be any number in
                        the range of 0 - 32768.
                        "+" is taken as default sign if not specified.

    /?                  Displays this help message.

Examples:
    FORFILES /?
    FORFILES
    FORFILES /P C:\WINDOWS /S /M DNS*.*
    FORFILES /S /M *.txt /C "cmd /c type @file | more"
    FORFILES /P C:\ /S /M *.bat
    FORFILES /D -30 /M *.exe
             /C "cmd /c echo @path 0x09 was changed 30 days ago"
    FORFILES /D 01/01/2001
             /C "cmd /c echo @fname is new since Jan 1st 2001"
    FORFILES /D +9/10/2008 /C "cmd /c echo @fname is new today"
    FORFILES /M *.exe /D +1
    FORFILES /S /M *.doc /C "cmd /c echo @fsize"
    FORFILES /M *.txt /C "cmd /c if @isdir==FALSE notepad.exe @file"
----

== Using telnet to verify if port is open, host is available ==
If connection succeeded a black window is open to send data on.
----
telnet host port
----

== Runing 3.5 builds on the team build 2005 ==
Sample program:
namespace MsBuild
{
    public class Program
    {
        public static int Main(string[] args)
        {
            for (int argIndex = 0; argIndex < args.Length; argIndex++)
            {
                if (args[argIndex].Contains(" "))
                {
                    string quotedArg = string.Format("\"{0}\"", args[argIndex]);
                    args[argIndex] = quotedArg;
                }
            }
            string arguments = string.Join(" ", args);
            Process process = Process.Start(
                @"C:\WINDOWS\Microsoft.NET\Framework\v3.5\MSBuild.exe",
                arguments);
            process.WaitForExit();
            return process.ExitCode;
        }
    }
}
Author: Mitch Denny [http://tfsnow.wordpress.com/2007/08/31/building-net-35-applications-with-team-build-2005/]

== Using cacls ==
Displays or modifies access control lists (ACLs) of files
----
CACLS filename [/T] [/E] [/C] [/G user:perm] [/R user [...]]
               [/P user:perm [...]] [/D user [...]]
   filename      Displays ACLs.
   /T            Changes ACLs of specified files in
                 the current directory and all subdirectories.
   /E            Edit ACL instead of replacing it.
   /C            Continue on access denied errors.
   /G user:perm  Grant specified user access rights.
                 Perm can be: R  Read
                              W  Write
                              C  Change (write)
                              F  Full control
   /R user       Revoke specified user's access rights (only valid with /E).
   /P user:perm  Replace specified user's access rights.
                 Perm can be: N  None
                              R  Read
                              W  Write
                              C  Change (write)
                              F  Full control
   /D user       Deny specified user access.
Wildcards can be used to specify more that one file in a command.
You can specify more than one user in a command.

Abbreviations:
   CI - Container Inherit.
        The ACE will be inherited by directories.
   OI - Object Inherit.
        The ACE will be inherited by files.
   IO - Inherit Only.
        The ACE does not apply to the current file/directory.
----
Sample: CACLS %WINDIR%\assembly /e /t /p [DOMAIN|MACHINENAME]\useraccount:R

== List of MS shell commands ==

----
ASSOC          Displays or modifies file extension associations.

ATTRIB         Displays or changes file attributes.

BREAK          Sets or clears extended CTRL+C checking.

BOOTCFG        Sets properties in boot.ini file to control boot loading.

CACLS          Displays or modifies access control lists (ACLs) of files.

CALL           Calls one batch program from another.

CD             Displays the name of or changes the current directory.

CHCP           Displays or sets the active code page number.

CHDIR          Displays the name of or changes the current directory.

CHKDSK         Checks a disk and displays a status report.

CHKNTFS        Displays or modifies the checking of disk at boot time.

CLS            Clears the screen.

CMD            Starts a new instance of the Windows command interpreter.

COLOR          Sets the default console foreground and background colors.

COMP           Compares the contents of two files or sets of files.

COMPACT        Displays or alters the compression of files on NTFS partitions.

CONVERT        Converts FAT volumes to NTFS.  You cannot convert the
               current drive.

COPY           Copies one or more files to another location.

DATE           Displays or sets the date.

DEL            Deletes one or more files.

DIR            Displays a list of files and subdirectories in a directory.

DISKCOMP       Compares the contents of two floppy disks.

DISKCOPY       Copies the contents of one floppy disk to another.

DISKPART       Displays or configures Disk Partition properties.

DOSKEY         Edits command lines, recalls Windows commands, and
               creates macros.

DRIVERQUERY    Displays current device driver status and properties.

ECHO           Displays messages, or turns command echoing on or off.

ENDLOCAL       Ends localization of environment changes in a batch file.

ERASE          Deletes one or more files.

EVENTQUERY     Displays event log entries for specified criteria.

EXIT           Quits the CMD.EXE program (command interpreter).

FC             Compares two files or sets of files, and displays the
               differences between them.

FIND           Searches for a text string in a file or files.

FINDSTR        Searches for strings in files.

FOR            Runs a specified command for each file in a set of files.

FORMAT         Formats a disk for use with Windows.

FSUTIL         Displays or configures the file system properties.

FTYPE          Displays or modifies file types used in file extension
               associations.

GOTO           Directs the Windows command interpreter to a labeled line in
               a batch program.

GPRESULT       Displays Group Policy information for machine or user.

GRAFTABL       Enables Windows to display an extended character set in
               graphics mode.

HELP           Provides Help information for Windows commands.

IF             Performs conditional processing in batch programs.

LABEL          Creates, changes, or deletes the volume label of a disk.

MD             Creates a directory.

MKDIR          Creates a directory.

MODE           Configures a system device.

MORE           Displays output one screen at a time.

MOVE           Moves one or more files from one directory to another
               directory.

OPENFILES      Displays files opened by remote users for a file share.

PAGEFILECONFIG Displays or configures Pagefile properties.

PATH           Displays or sets a search path for executable files.

PAUSE          Suspends processing of a batch file and displays a message.

POPD           Restores the previous value of the current directory saved by
               PUSHD.

PRINT          Prints a text file.

PROMPT         Changes the Windows command prompt.

PUSHD          Saves the current directory then changes it.

RD             Removes a directory.

RECOVER        Recovers readable information from a bad or defective disk.

REM            Records comments (remarks) in batch files or CONFIG.SYS.

REN            Renames a file or files.

RENAME         Renames a file or files.

REPLACE        Replaces files.

RMDIR          Removes a directory.

SET            Displays, sets, or removes Windows environment variables.

SETLOCAL       Begins localization of environment changes in a batch file.

SC             Displays or configures services (background processes).

SCHTASKS       Schedules commands and programs to run on a computer.

SHIFT          Shifts the position of replaceable parameters in batch files.

SHUTDOWN       Allows proper local or remote shutdown of machine.

SORT           Sorts input.

START          Starts a separate window to run a specified program or command.

SUBST          Associates a path with a drive letter.

SYSTEMINFO     Displays machine specific properties and configuration.

TASKLIST       Displays all currently running tasks including services.

TASKKILL       Kill or stop a running process or application.

TIME           Displays or sets the system time.

TITLE          Sets the window title for a CMD.EXE session.

TREE           Graphically displays the directory structure of a drive or
               path.

TYPE           Displays the contents of a text file.

VER            Displays the Windows version.

VERIFY         Tells Windows whether to verify that your files are written
               correctly to a disk.

VOL            Displays a disk volume label and serial number.

XCOPY          Copies files and directory trees.

WMIC           Displays WMI information inside interactive command shell.

----